fend (Fast EveNt Dispatch)
==========================

fend is an event framework utilising LuaJIT's ffi.

It currently has `poll` and `epoll` based dispatchers.

The processed C headers in `include/` are from a linux x64 system; they may not be suitable for you.

Note: Most functions can raise errors.

Installation
------------

Just place the `fend` directory in your lua module search path


Modules
-------

### File
This module wraps raw file descriptors (usually ints) in a structure to attach methods.

The module returns a constructor that takes the raw file descriptor:
``` lua
    new_file = require "fend.file"
    stdin = new_fd ( 0 )
```

 - `file:getfd ( )`  
 	returns the raw file descriptor

 - `file:set_blocking ( bool )`  
 	sets the `O_NONBLOCK` flag


### Socket
A non-blocking luasocket-like interface

 - `sock = socket.new_tcp ( domain )`  
 	Creates a new socket with the given domain (where `domain` is an `AF_*`; these can conveniently be found in an addrinfo structure: `addrinfo.ai_family` (see DNS section))

 - `sock:getfile ( )`
 	Returns the file descriptor for the socket

 - `sock:getfd ( )`  
 	Shortcut for `sock:getfile():getfd()`

 - `sock:set_option ( level , option , val , size )`  
 	Calls `setsockopt` with the given parameters  
 	if `val` is a number or boolean it will be converted to an int  
 	`size` is optional, if not passed will be `sizeof(val)`

 - `sock:set_socket_option ( option , val , size )`  
 	Looks up the string `option` and calls `sock:set_option`  
 	eg, `option = "REUSEADDR"`

 - `sock:bind ( addrinfo )`  
	`sock:bind ( sockaddr , sockaddr_len )`  
	Binds the socket to the interface given in `addrinfo` or `sockaddr , sockaddr_len`

 - `sock:listen ( backlog )`  
 	Sets the socket to listen with the given backlog (defaults to 128)

 - `sock:accept ( with_sockaddr )`  
 	Accepts a new client on `sock`.  
 	The returned socket will have `O_NONBLOCK` set.  
 	If `with_sockaddr` is true, the call will return a `sockaddr` and length as extra return values

 - `sock:shutdown ( )`  
 	Aliased as sock:_shutdown to prevent internal conflicts with the SSL object

 - `n_read = sock:recv ( buff , len , flags )`  
   `n_read = sock:receive ( buff , len , flags )`  
	`buff` should be a user allocated buffer of length `len`.  
	`flags` defaults to `0`.  
	Returns the number of bytes read.

 - `n_read = sock:peek ( buff , len , flags )`  
 	Same as `sock:recv`, but the MSG_PEEK flag is set

 - `n_bytes = sock:send ( buff , len , flags )`  
 	Sends buff to the connected peer  
	If `buff` is not a `const char*` then it will have `tostring` called on it.  
	If `len` is not given, it is the length of the string.  
	`flags` defaults to `0`.  
	Returns the number of bytes written.

 - `sock:getpeername ( )`  
 	Returns a `sockaddr` and it's length representing the connected peer

### SSL
Provides a luasec-like interface (even supporting the same context types)

 - `require "fend.ssl_handshake".handshake ( sock , dispatcher , callback )`  
 	Will do an ssl handshake on the given socket, and when complete, call your callback.

### DNS
Provides dns and host based utilities.

 - `dns.lookup ( hostname , port , hints )`  
 	Completes a blocking lookup, returning an `addrinfo` structure
 	hints can be `NULL` or an `addrinfo` structure

 - `dns.lookup_async ( hostname , port , hints , dispatcher , callback )`  
 	Does a non-blocking dns lookup, and when ready.  
 	Will call callback `cb` with an `addrinfo` structure.  
 	Returns an object with methods:  
		`wait`: blocks until the lookup is completed (or until `timeout`). returns boolean indicating success/failure


Examples
--------

 - `examples/all.lua [dispatcher]`  
 	is a demonstration of every module working together  
 	`dispatcher` can be either `poll` or `epoll`

 - `examples/http_client.lua`  
 	is a basic http client  
 	the module returns a table with functions:  
 		`request ( url , options , dispatcher , callback )`


Extra Information
-----------------

The `include` directory contains a partial replication of processed files from the `/usr/include` directory.
